# Pokémon Crystal Randomizer

Pokémon Crystal Randomizer is a tool for modifying the "vanilla" Pokémon Crystal Version 1.1. ROM.

## Installation

### Windows

Download and run the appropriate Windows Executable (.exe) installer for your system from [here](https://github.com/dbagwell/pokemon-crystal-randomizer/releases/latest) and follow the installation steps.

### macOS

Download the appropriate Zip file (.zip) for your system from here [here](https://github.com/dbagwell/pokemon-crystal-randomizer/releases/latest) and decompress/unzip it to extract the App from it.

### Linux

Download the appropriate AppImage file for your system from here [here](https://github.com/dbagwell/pokemon-crystal-randomizer/releases/latest).

## Usage

### Generating ROM's

1. Launch the Pokemon Crystal Randomizer Application.
1. Select a preset and or customize the changes you would like to make.
1. Click "Player Options" and customize your individual player options.
1. Click "GENERATE".
1. Provide a base "vanilla" ROM of Pokémon Crystal Version 1.1.
1. Select a location to save the generated ROM.

### Sharing Games

***Do NOT share the ROM files generated by this application.***

If you have a friend who would like to play the game using the exact same changes as you, before Generating your ROM, make sure the "Generate Patch File" option is checked. This will create a Pokemon Crystal Randomizer Patch (.pcrp) file that can be shared with others. 

Anyone with the randomizer application installed and a valid "vanilla" ROM of Pokémon Crystal Version 1.1 can use this patch file to generate their own ROM with the same changes (other than the individual player options). 

To do this, all they need to do is double-click on the patch file (Windows and macOS only), manually open the patch with the Pokemon Crystal Randomizer Application, or launch the application and select the patch file using the "Apply Patch" option from the "File" menu.

### Sharing Settings

Custom settings can also be exported as YAML files that can be imported by others and used to generate their own games with different seeds.

### About Player Options

The Player Options are a group of settings that can be customized individually by each player using a patch (.pcrp) file to generate a game with the same seed and settings. These settings are for things that can or would normally be customized by players in the game anyways (like their player name or their text speed).

### CLI

The app can also be used to generate ROMs, logs and patches without having to use the User Iterface if the app is launched from the command line with `generate` as its first argument. The following options are be used to 

- `--rom`: **boolean flag (optional)** - Tells the generator to create a `.gbc` file in the specified `--outputDir` that contains the generated changes.
- `--log`: **boolean flag (optional)** - Tells the generator to create a `.log.txt` file in the specified `--outputDir` that details all the changes included in the patch.
- `--patch`: **boolean flag (optional)** - Tells the generator to create a `.pcrp` file in the specified `--outputDir` that can be used to create a patched ROM with the same changes.
- `--preset`: **string (optional)** - The id of the settings preset to use when generating the changes. This can be one of the built in presets or one of the custom presets that were created using the app. The id of a custom preset is just its (case sensitive) name, and the following is a list of the built in preset ids:
  - VANILLA
  - CLASSIC_BINGO
  - BINGO_PLUS
  - CLASSIC_KIR
  - CLASSIC_EXTREME_KIR
  - CLASSIC_FIR
  - CLASSIC_EXTREME_FIR
  - CLASSIC_CRAZY_FIR
  - CLASSIC_MAX
  - MAXIMUM_PLUS
- `--settings`: **string (optional)** - The path to a `.yml` file that contains the desired settings to used when generating the changes.
- `--seed`: **string (optional)** - The seed to use for all the random choices when generating the changes. If not specified, a random seed will be used.
- `--inputROM`: **string (optional)** - The path to a `.gbc` file that contains the vanilla Pokémon Crystal Version 1.1 ROM. Required if using the `--rom` option and no vanilla ROM has been provided to the app before.
- `--outputDir`: **string (required)** - The path to a directory where all generated files will be saved.
- `--name`: **string (optional)** - The name that will be given to the all the generated files. If not specified, the check value of the ROM will be used instead.
- `--force`: **boolean flag (optional)** - Tells the generator to save the generated files even if files with the same names already exist in the `--outputDir`.

##### Important Notes: 
- At least one of the `--rom`, `--log` and `--patch` options must be specified.
- Only one of `--preset` and `--settings` can be used at a time, if neither are specified, `VANILLA` preset will be used.

## Feature Requests and Bug Reports

Please submit all feature requests and bug reports in the issues section of this repository and label them with the `enhancement` and `bug` labels respectively.

When reporting bugs, please include any error messages (or screenshots of error states) and as much information as possible to help narrow down the issue. If the bug is related to a generated ROM, please also attach the log (.log.txt) and patch (.pcrp) files if available - ***do NOT include the ROM file***.

## Contributing

See [contributing](contributing.md).

## Acknowledgements

This project would not be possible without the following other projects that came before it:
- The Pokémon Crystal Disassembly project from the PRET (Pokémon Reverse Engineering Tools) community
- The Pokémon Crystal Speedchoice project by Dabombstew
- The Universal Pokémon Randomizer by Dabombstew and all its successors
- The Pokémon Crystal Item Randomizer (for Speedchoice) by ERC and Chaotix

## Notice

This project is not affiliated with, authorised, or endorsed by The Pokémon Company, Game Freak, Creatures, or Nintendo.